README.md, before:

[![Python-CI](https://github.com/gbtami/pychess-variants/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/gbtami/pychess-variants/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Nodejs-CI](https://github.com/gbtami/pychess-variants/actions/workflows/nodejs.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/gbtami/pychess-variants/actions/workflows/nodejs.yml)
## PyChess-Variants

PyChess-Variants is a free, open-source chess server designed to play chess variants.

Currently supported games are:

- [Makruk](https://www.pychess.org/variant/makruk)
- [Makpong](https://www.pychess.org/variant/makpong)
- [Ouk Chatrang](https://www.pychess.org/variant/cambodian)
- [Sittuyin](https://www.pychess.org/variant/sittuyin)
- [Shogi](https://www.pychess.org/variant/shogi)
- [Minishogi](https://www.pychess.org/variant/minishogi)
- [Kyoto shogi](https://www.pychess.org/variant/kyotoshogi)
- [Dobutsu shogi](https://www.pychess.org/variant/dobutsu)
- [Goro-Goro shogi](https://www.pychess.org/variant/gorogoro)
- [Xiangqi](https://www.pychess.org/variant/xiangqi)
- [Manchu](https://www.pychess.org/variant/manchu)
- [Janggi](https://www.pychess.org/variant/janggi)
- [Minixiangqi](https://www.pychess.org/variant/minixiangqi)
- [Placement chess](https://www.pychess.org/variant/placement)
- [Crazyhouse](https://www.pychess.org/variant/crazyhouse)
- [Atomic](https://www.pychess.org/variant/atomic)
- [S-chess](https://www.pychess.org/variant/seirawan)
- [Capablanca](https://www.pychess.org/variant/capablanca)
- [Gothic](https://www.pychess.org/variant/gothic)
- [Grand](https://www.pychess.org/variant/grand)
- [Shako](https://www.pychess.org/variant/shako)
- [Shogun](https://www.pychess.org/variant/shogun)
- [Orda](https://www.pychess.org/variant/orda)
- [Synochess](https://www.pychess.org/variant/synochess)
- [Hoppel-Poppel](https://www.pychess.org/variant/hoppelpoppel)
- [Shinobi](https://www.pychess.org/variant/shinobi)
- [S-house (S-chess+Crazyhouse)](https://www.pychess.org/variant/shouse)
- [Capahouse (Capablanca+Crazyhouse)](https://www.pychess.org/variant/capahouse)
- [Grandhouse (Grand chess+Crazyhouse)](https://www.pychess.org/variant/grandhouse)
- [Standard chess](https://www.pychess.org/variant/chess)

Additionally you can check Chess960 option in for Standard, Crazyhouse, Atomic, S-chess, Capablanca and Capahouse to start games from random positions with 
[Chess960 castling rules](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chess960#Castling_rules)

For move generation, validation, analysis and engine play it uses
- [Fairy-Stockfish](https://github.com/ianfab/Fairy-Stockfish)
- [fairyfishnet](https://github.com/gbtami/fairyfishnet) fork of [fishnet](https://github.com/niklasf/fishnet)
- [lichess-bot-variants](https://github.com/gbtami/lichess-bot-variants) fork of [lichess-bot](https://github.com/careless25/lichess-bot)

On client side it is based on
[chessgroundx](https://github.com/gbtami/chessgroundx) fork of [chessground](https://github.com/ornicar/chessground)

##

As you know, pychess-variants is a free server and it will remain free forever. However, maintaining and improving the server costs time and money.

If you like our work and find our server useful, please donate through [patreon](https://www.patreon.com/pychess) or directly through [paypal](https://www.paypal.me/gbtami)!!
Your contribution will be greatly appreciated and help me continue to develop this awesome server.

## Installation

### Prerequisites
* [Mongo daemon](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/installation/) (You need mongodb up and running)


### Project setup
```
pip3 install -r requirements.txt --user
yarn install
yarn dev
```

### Start server
```
python3 server/server.py
```

Commit message:

Fix project dev setup for MacOS
MacOS comes usually with old bash and sh versions, so some commands are
not exactly as in Linux.

Namely for our case, there's no `-t` option for `mv`, and the `-i` flag
of `find` requires always a value after it.

The simplest solution is to just have 2 different yarn scripts.

README.md, after:

[![Python-CI](https://github.com/gbtami/pychess-variants/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/gbtami/pychess-variants/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Nodejs-CI](https://github.com/gbtami/pychess-variants/actions/workflows/nodejs.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/gbtami/pychess-variants/actions/workflows/nodejs.yml)
## PyChess-Variants

PyChess-Variants is a free, open-source chess server designed to play chess variants.

Currently supported games are:

- [Makruk](https://www.pychess.org/variant/makruk)
- [Makpong](https://www.pychess.org/variant/makpong)
- [Ouk Chatrang](https://www.pychess.org/variant/cambodian)
- [Sittuyin](https://www.pychess.org/variant/sittuyin)
- [Shogi](https://www.pychess.org/variant/shogi)
- [Minishogi](https://www.pychess.org/variant/minishogi)
- [Kyoto shogi](https://www.pychess.org/variant/kyotoshogi)
- [Dobutsu shogi](https://www.pychess.org/variant/dobutsu)
- [Goro-Goro shogi](https://www.pychess.org/variant/gorogoro)
- [Xiangqi](https://www.pychess.org/variant/xiangqi)
- [Manchu](https://www.pychess.org/variant/manchu)
- [Janggi](https://www.pychess.org/variant/janggi)
- [Minixiangqi](https://www.pychess.org/variant/minixiangqi)
- [Placement chess](https://www.pychess.org/variant/placement)
- [Crazyhouse](https://www.pychess.org/variant/crazyhouse)
- [Atomic](https://www.pychess.org/variant/atomic)
- [S-chess](https://www.pychess.org/variant/seirawan)
- [Capablanca](https://www.pychess.org/variant/capablanca)
- [Gothic](https://www.pychess.org/variant/gothic)
- [Grand](https://www.pychess.org/variant/grand)
- [Shako](https://www.pychess.org/variant/shako)
- [Shogun](https://www.pychess.org/variant/shogun)
- [Orda](https://www.pychess.org/variant/orda)
- [Synochess](https://www.pychess.org/variant/synochess)
- [Hoppel-Poppel](https://www.pychess.org/variant/hoppelpoppel)
- [Shinobi](https://www.pychess.org/variant/shinobi)
- [S-house (S-chess+Crazyhouse)](https://www.pychess.org/variant/shouse)
- [Capahouse (Capablanca+Crazyhouse)](https://www.pychess.org/variant/capahouse)
- [Grandhouse (Grand chess+Crazyhouse)](https://www.pychess.org/variant/grandhouse)
- [Standard chess](https://www.pychess.org/variant/chess)

Additionally you can check Chess960 option in for Standard, Crazyhouse, Atomic, S-chess, Capablanca and Capahouse to start games from random positions with 
[Chess960 castling rules](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chess960#Castling_rules)

For move generation, validation, analysis and engine play it uses
- [Fairy-Stockfish](https://github.com/ianfab/Fairy-Stockfish)
- [fairyfishnet](https://github.com/gbtami/fairyfishnet) fork of [fishnet](https://github.com/niklasf/fishnet)
- [lichess-bot-variants](https://github.com/gbtami/lichess-bot-variants) fork of [lichess-bot](https://github.com/careless25/lichess-bot)

On client side it is based on
[chessgroundx](https://github.com/gbtami/chessgroundx) fork of [chessground](https://github.com/ornicar/chessground)

##

As you know, pychess-variants is a free server and it will remain free forever. However, maintaining and improving the server costs time and money.

If you like our work and find our server useful, please donate through [patreon](https://www.patreon.com/pychess) or directly through [paypal](https://www.paypal.me/gbtami)!!
Your contribution will be greatly appreciated and help me continue to develop this awesome server.

## Installation

### Prerequisites
* [Mongo daemon](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/installation/) (You need mongodb up and running)


### Project setup
```
pip3 install -r requirements.txt --user
yarn install
yarn dev
```

For MacOS, replace the last command with:
```
yarn dev-mac
```

### Start server
```
python3 server/server.py
```
