static/images/pieces/shogi/Ka/README.md, before:

## About
Repository for shogi pieces I made or modified. By default the filenames are for [XBoard](https://www.gnu.org/software/xboard/) and [gshogi](https://github.com/johncheetham/gshogi), but of course they can be used with other programs, too. The files were made with [Inkscape](https://inkscape.org). This repository also contains board tiles (see screenshots), which were made/modified with [GIMP](https://www.gimp.org).

## Piece Sets

### Kanji (red wood) & 2-Kanji (red wood)

Inspired by [this youtube video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LEkh6vnWJ6Y)

Credits: The 2-kanji characters were made by Hari Seldon and lincesed under [Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/deed.en). Source: [Wikimedia Commons](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:SVG_traditional_shogi_pieces)

![kanji red wood screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Ka-hu/shogi-pieces/master/_screenshots/scrot_kanji_red_wood.png)


![2-kanji red wood screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Ka-hu/shogi-pieces/master/_screenshots/scrot_2-kanji_red_wood.png)

### Kanji (light)

![kanji light screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Ka-hu/shogi-pieces/master/_screenshots/scrot_kanji_light.png)

### Kanji (brown)

![kanji brown screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Ka-hu/shogi-pieces/master/_screenshots/scrot_kanji_brown.png)

### International

A modified version of [CouchTomato87](https://github.com/CouchTomato87/InternationalizedPieces/tree/master/Shogi)'s and [Hidetchi](https://github.com/Hidetchi)'s pieces. I made the hisha piece into a winged (flying) chariot that also looks like a rook. :) I also changed the bishop to a modified Hidetchi version, change/modified the lance, and made new king and jeweled pieces (the jeweled has a little jewel in the crown).

![international screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Ka-hu/shogi-pieces/master/_screenshots/scrot_international.png)

### Doubutsu

I recreated all of the original [Doubutsu](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/D%C5%8Dbutsu_sh%C5%8Dgi) pieces in Inkscape SVG format.

(also: [screenshot of the gshogi version](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Ka-hu/shogi-pieces/master/_screenshots/scrot_doubutsu_gshogi.png))

![doubutsu screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Ka-hu/shogi-pieces/master/_screenshots/scrot_doubutsu_xboard.png)

### Military

A new, self-made piece set. The moves are not changed of course, it's still "normal" shogi, only the pictures are different. When a piece got promoted it gets a red rank above its picture, except the tank (rook) which becomes a drone tank, and the aircraft (bishop) which becomes a drone.

(also: [screenshot with promoted pieces](https://i.imgur.com/CbX2MzN.png))

![military screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Ka-hu/shogi-pieces/master/_screenshots/scrot_military.png)

## Lincese

Where it's not stated otherwise, my work is lincensed under [CC-BY-4.0](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/cc-by-4.0)

Commit message:

Updated readme of doubutsu pieces

static/images/pieces/shogi/Ka/README.md, after:

## About
Repository for shogi pieces I made or modified. By default the filenames are for [XBoard](https://www.gnu.org/software/xboard/) and [gshogi](https://github.com/johncheetham/gshogi), but of course they can be used with other programs, too. The files were made with [Inkscape](https://inkscape.org). This repository also contains board tiles (see screenshots), which were made/modified with [GIMP](https://www.gimp.org).

## Piece Sets

### Kanji (red wood) & 2-Kanji (red wood)

Inspired by [this youtube video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LEkh6vnWJ6Y)

Credits: The 2-kanji characters were made by Hari Seldon and lincesed under [Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/deed.en). Source: [Wikimedia Commons](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:SVG_traditional_shogi_pieces)

![kanji red wood screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Ka-hu/shogi-pieces/master/_screenshots/scrot_kanji_red_wood.png)


![2-kanji red wood screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Ka-hu/shogi-pieces/master/_screenshots/scrot_2-kanji_red_wood.png)

### Kanji (light)

![kanji light screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Ka-hu/shogi-pieces/master/_screenshots/scrot_kanji_light.png)

### Kanji (brown)

![kanji brown screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Ka-hu/shogi-pieces/master/_screenshots/scrot_kanji_brown.png)

### International

A modified version of [CouchTomato87](https://github.com/CouchTomato87/InternationalizedPieces/tree/master/Shogi)'s and [Hidetchi](https://github.com/Hidetchi)'s pieces. I made the hisha piece into a winged (flying) chariot that also looks like a rook. :) I also changed the bishop to a modified Hidetchi version, change/modified the lance, and made new king and jeweled pieces (the jeweled has a little jewel in the crown).

![international screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Ka-hu/shogi-pieces/master/_screenshots/scrot_international.png)

### Doubutsu

I recreated all of the original [Doubutsu](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/D%C5%8Dbutsu_sh%C5%8Dgi) pieces in Inkscape SVG format.

Credits: the original Doubutsu pieces were created by [Madoka Kitato](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Madoka_Kitao).

(also: [screenshot of the gshogi version](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Ka-hu/shogi-pieces/master/_screenshots/scrot_doubutsu_gshogi.png))

![doubutsu screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Ka-hu/shogi-pieces/master/_screenshots/scrot_doubutsu_xboard.png)

### Military

A new, self-made piece set. The moves are not changed of course, it's still "normal" shogi, only the pictures are different. When a piece got promoted it gets a red rank above its picture, except the tank (rook) which becomes a drone tank, and the aircraft (bishop) which becomes a drone.

(also: [screenshot with promoted pieces](https://i.imgur.com/CbX2MzN.png))

![military screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Ka-hu/shogi-pieces/master/_screenshots/scrot_military.png)

## Lincese

Where it's not stated otherwise, my work is lincensed under [CC-BY-4.0](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/cc-by-4.0)
